# Phase 01 - UX MVP

## Summary

Create the minimal architecture scaffolding and the required parts to provide an MVP:

::: info Milestone
**Configure the CU profiles, per user via New Cloud's interface**
:::

### Step by step

1. [NewConnecta's Orchestrator](#step-1-develop-the-orchestrator-for-newconnecta)
2. [UC's new API](#step-2-cu-management-api)
3. [NewConnecta's Orchestrator frontend API](#step-3-frontend-api-on-the-orchestrator)
4. [UC's API relayed via Orchestrator's API to Frontend](#step-4-integrate-the-uc-api-service-within-newconnectas-orchestrator-and-relay-it-to-the-frontend-api)
5. [Frontend components](#step-5-design-a-comprehensive-set-of-frontend-components-to-manage-the-configurations-of-the-uc-service)

## Target architectural blocks

```mermaid

<!--@include: ../architecture/map.md-->

style NEWCONNECTA_WORKER fill:#080,stroke:#333
style NEWCONNECTA_FEAPI fill:#080,stroke:#333
style NEWCONNECTA_DB fill:#080,stroke:#333
style F1_API fill:#080,stroke:#333
style NEWCLOUD_FE fill:#080,stroke:#333
linkStyle 1,2,4,5,6,12 stroke:#080

```

## Step 1: Develop the Orchestrator for NewConnecta.

A brand-new project, along with its entire data model & database, to represent the entity of the new orchestrator.

This entity or application will soon be responsible for managing newly created recipes. Moreover, during the initial phase, it will be in charge of the relaying of the _workers_ API's to the front-end.

It will use its local database, for which a data model has been developed and can be accessed at the provided reference, [here](../classmap.md) ('Orchestration' section)

#### Milestones:

1. Define the project/solution/repository strategy for Orchestrator and other NewConnecta pieces [**WIP**]
2. Create the project to expose the API
3. Define the DB storage strategy
4. Implement defined data model in the new DB
5. Create a basic service to manage the recipes

```mermaid

<!--@include: ../architecture/map.md-->
style NEWCONNECTA_WORKER fill:#080,stroke:#333
style NEWCONNECTA_DB fill:#080,stroke:#333
```

## Step 2: CU management API

Create and expose an API in the CU service that allows CRUD operations of his profiles (the objects that contain the multiple CU setups)

### Milestones:

1. **Create** a hosted **API** infrastructure in the current CU component
2. **To Expose** this API. Define **networking** aspects regarding environments.
3. **Implement** each **CRUD** actions and define DTOs implemented in the APIs
4. **Implement** structure **validation** & business rules for the CRUD

```mermaid
<!--@include: ../architecture/map.md-->

style F1_API fill:#080,stroke:#333
linkStyle 5 stroke:#080

```

> _Make the worker use the API?_

## Step 3: Frontend API on the Orchestrator.

Bring up a new frontend API, exposed from the new [Orchestrator](../architecture/parts/orchestrator.md).

The API will, in the **future**, interact with the Orchestrator to fetch the _recipes_ ([classMap, orchestration section](../classmap.md)), the _cooks_, as well as managing any _workers_ available or involved, and their setups.

In this phase, those models will be scoped to a minimal structure which can handle the MVP: A simple _recipe_, with just one _recipe_step_ corresponding to the **CU**.

Additionally, the corresponding graphical meta information will be also need to be generated, at least as a placeholder until it is finally defined in [Step 5](#step-5-design-a-comprehensive-set-of-frontend-components-to-manage-the-configurations-of-the-uc-service)

To properly create the standard UX, data from the **Orchestrator** will need to include information from the following models:

- user
- recipe
- recipe_step
- recipe_worker
- recipe_worker_profile ([Next step](#step-4-integrate-the-uc-api-service-within-newconnectas-orchestrator-and-relay-it-to-the-frontend-api))

### Milestones:

1. **Create** a hosted **API** infrastructure in the current CU component
2. **Define** and **expose** the UX basic components to the frontend

```mermaid
<!--@include: ../architecture/map.md-->

style NEWCONNECTA_FEAPI fill:#080,stroke:#333
style NEWCONNECTA_WORKER fill:#880,stroke:#333
linkStyle 2 stroke:#080
linkStyle 1 stroke:#880

```

> _Does orchestrator talk to DB or to TasksAPI?_

## Step 4: Integrate the UC API service within NewConnecta's Orchestrator and relay it to the frontend API.

Additionally, to **update** the _step_ configuration, the CRUD for the _worker_profile_ model will be needed. This info will be available from the [Step 2](#step-2-cu-management-api), and will need to be wrapped and relayed by the Orchestrator front-end API, which will act like a proxy for those actions.

### Milestones:

1. Provide basic _recipe_ UX data structures from the API to the New Cloud's frontend.
2. Wrap (bidirectionally) the **CRUD** actions from the CU API into those structures.

```mermaid
<!--@include: ../architecture/map.md-->

style NEWCONNECTA_FEAPI fill:#880,stroke:#333
style NEWCONNECTA_WORKER fill:#880,stroke:#333
linkStyle 6 stroke:#080
linkStyle 2 stroke:#880

```

## Step 5: Design a comprehensive set of frontend components to manage the configurations of the UC service.

### Milestones:

1. **Implement** each **CRUD** actions and define DTOs implemented in the APIs
2. **Implement** structure **validation** & business rules for the CRUD

```mermaid
<!--@include: ../architecture/map.md-->

style NEWCLOUD_FE fill:#080,stroke:#333
style NEWCONNECTA_FEAPI fill:#880,stroke:#333
linkStyle 12 stroke:#080
linkStyle 2 stroke:#880

```

> _Determine frontend and uServices frontend strategies:_
>
> - _MicroFrontend & Lazy Loadings_
>
> - _MonoRepo & Nx?_
>
> - _Pending NewCloud team review_
