# Phase 01 - CU-CRUD-UX

## Summary

Create the minimal architecture scaffolding and the required parts to provide an MVP:

::: info Milestone
**Configure the CU profiles, per user, via New Cloud's interface**
:::

### Step by step

1. [NewConnecta's Orchestration API](#step-1-create-orchestration-api-for-newconnecta)
2. [UC's new API](#step-2-cu-management-api)
3. [NewConnecta's Orchestrator frontend API](#step-3-frontend-api-on-the-orchestrator)
4. [UC's API relayed via Orchestrator's API to Frontend](#step-4-integrate-the-uc-api-service-within-newconnectas-orchestrator-and-relay-it-to-the-frontend-api)
5. [Frontend components](#step-5-design-a-comprehensive-set-of-frontend-components-to-manage-the-configurations-of-the-uc-service)

## Affected architectural blocks

```mermaid

<!--@include: ../architecture/map.md-->

style NEWCONNECTA fill:#020,stroke:#333
style LW fill:#020,stroke:#333
style NC fill:#020,stroke:#333

style LW_API fill:#080,stroke:#333
style NEWCLOUD_FE fill:#080,stroke:#333
style NEWCONNECTA_DB fill:#080,stroke:#333
style ORCHESTRATION_API fill:#080,stroke:#333

linkStyle 6 stroke:#080
linkStyle 4 stroke:#080
linkStyle 2 stroke:#080
linkStyle 4 stroke:#880
linkStyle 1 stroke:#080

```

## Step 1: Create orchestration API for NewConnecta.

A brand-new project, along with a minimal version of the data model & database.

This entity or application will later be responsible for managing newly created recipes and cooks.

During the initial phase, it will be in charge of the relaying of the _workers_ API's to the front-end.

It will use its local database, for which a data model has been developed and can be accessed at the provided reference, [here](../classmap.md) ('Orchestration' section).

#### Milestones:

1. Define the project/solution/repository strategy for Orchestrator and other NewConnecta pieces [**WIP**]
2. Create the project to expose the API
3. Define the DB storage strategy
4. Implement defined data model in the new DB **only for _workers_ at this time**

```mermaid

<!--@include: ../architecture/map.md-->
style NEWCONNECTA fill:#020,stroke:#333
style ORCHESTRATION_API fill:#080,stroke:#333
style NEWCONNECTA_DB fill:#080,stroke:#333
linkStyle 1 stroke:#080
```

## Step 2: CU management API

Create and expose an API in the CU service that allows CRUD operations of his profiles (the objects that contain the multiple CU setups). This API may be and adaptation of the code currently serving **Administra** UX for this purpose.

### Milestones:

1. **Create** a hosted **API** infrastructure in the current CU component
2. **To Expose** this API. Define **networking** aspects regarding environments.
3. **Implement** each **CRUD** actions and define DTOs implemented in the APIs
4. **Implement** structure **validation** & business rules for the CRUD

```mermaid

<!--@include: ../architecture/map.md-->

style LW fill:#020,stroke:#333
style LW_API fill:#080,stroke:#333
linkStyle 6 stroke:#080

```

## Step 3: Frontend API on the Orchestrator.

Bring up a new frontend API, exposed from the new [Orchestrator](../architecture/parts/orchestrator.md).

The API will, in the **future**, interact with the Orchestrator to fetch the _recipes_ ([classMap, orchestration section](../classmap.md)), the _cooks_, as well as managing any _workers_ available or involved, and their setups.

In this phase, those models will be scoped to a minimal structure which can handle the MVP: A simple _recipe_, with just one _recipe_step_ corresponding to the **CU**.

Additionally, the corresponding graphical meta information will be also needed to be generated, as a placeholder until it is finally defined in [Step 5](#step-5-design-a-comprehensive-set-of-frontend-components-to-manage-the-configurations-of-the-uc-service).

To properly create the standard UX, data from the **Orchestrator** will need to include information from the following models:

- user
- worker
- worker_profile from [next step](#step-4-integrate-the-uc-api-service-within-newconnectas-orchestrator-and-relay-it-to-the-frontend-api)

In the next phases, on _recipe_ adoption, it will also integrate information for:

- recipe
- recipe_step
- recipe_worker
  > replacing the previous _worker_
- recipe_worker_profile
  > replacing the previous _worker_profile_

### Milestones:

1. **Create** a hosted **API** infrastructure in the current CU component
2. **Define** and **expose** the UX basic components to the frontend

```mermaid
<!--@include: ../architecture/map.md-->

style NEWCONNECTA fill:#020,stroke:#333
style ORCHESTRATION_API fill:#880,stroke:#333
linkStyle 4 stroke:#080


```

> _Does orchestrator talk to DB or to TasksAPI?_

## Step 4: Integrate the UC API service within NewConnecta's Orchestrator and relay it to the frontend API.

Additionally, to **update** the UC configuration, the CRUD for the _worker_profile_ model will be needed. This info will be available from the [Step 2](#step-2-cu-management-api), and will need to be wrapped and relayed by the Orchestrator front-end API, which will act like a proxy for those actions.

### Milestones:

1. Provide UX data structures from the API to the New Cloud's frontend.
2. Wrap (bidirectionally) the **CRUD** actions from the CU API into those structures.

```mermaid
<!--@include: ../architecture/map.md-->

style NEWCONNECTA fill:#020,stroke:#333
style ORCHESTRATION_API fill:#880,stroke:#333
linkStyle 2 stroke:#080
linkStyle 4 stroke:#880

```

## Step 5: Design a comprehensive set of frontend components to manage the configurations of the UC service.

### Milestones:

1. Define the final UX and the set of frontend components used
2. Define the final location and technology used to create and serve these components (micro-frontends, lazy loading, etc.) 
> - _Pending NewCloud team review_ (_MicroFrontend & Lazy Loadings_, _MonoRepo & Nx?_)
3. Implement the UC_Profiles **indexing (& deleting)** UX and component. (Grid + endpoints)
4. Implement the UC_Profiles **creating (& updating)** UX and component. (New UX + endpoints)
5. Implement each action's **DTO**s in the APIs
6. Implement front-end **validation** & handling of back-end validation responses in the UX


```mermaid
<!--@include: ../architecture/map.md-->

style NEWCLOUD_FE fill:#080,stroke:#333
style NC fill:#020,stroke:#333


```

>
